# 26. Remove Duplicates from Sorted Array

https://leetcode.com/problems/remove-duplicates-from-sorted-array/

---

# Description

Given a sorted array nums, remove the duplicates in-place such that each element appear only once and return the new length.

Do not allocate extra space for another array, you must do this by **modifying the input array in-place** with O(1) extra memory.

**Example 1**:

> Given nums = **[1,1,2]**,
> 
> Your function should return length = **2**, with the first two elements of nums being **1** and **2** respectively.
> 
> It doesn't matter what you leave beyond the returned length.

**Example 2**:

> Given nums = **[0,0,1,1,1,2,2,3,3,4]**,
> 
> Your function should return length = **5**, with the first five elements of nums being modified to **0**, **1**, **2**, **3**, and **4** respectively.
> 
> It doesn't matter what values are set beyond the returned length.

**Clarification**:

Confused why the returned value is an integer but your answer is an array?

Note that the input array is passed in by **reference**, which means modification to the input array will be known to the caller as well.

Internally you can think of this:

<pre><code>
// <b>nums</b> is passed in by reference. (i.e., without making a copy)
int len = removeDuplicates(nums);
<br>
// any modification to <b>nums</b> in your function would be known by the caller.
// using the length returned by your function, it prints the first <b>len</b> elements.
for (int i = 0; i < len; i++) {
    print(nums[i]);
}
</code></pre>

---

# Solution

## 1. Naive Approach

**Python**
```python
class Solution:
    def removeDuplicates(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        i = 1
        while i < len(nums):
            if nums[i-1] == nums[i]:
                del nums[i]
            else:
                i += 1
        return len(nums)
```

**Time Complexity** : $O(n)$

**Space Complexity** :$O(1)$