# 27. Remove Element

https://leetcode.com/problems/remove-element/

---

# Description

Given an array nums and a value val, remove all instances of that value in-place and return the new length.

Do not allocate extra space for another array, you must do this by **modifying the input array in-place** with O(1) extra memory.

The order of elements can be changed. It doesn't matter what you leave beyond the new length.

**Example 1**:

> Given nums = **[3,2,2,3]**, val = **3**,
> 
> Your function should return length = **2**, with the first two elements of nums being **2**.
> 
> It doesn't matter what you leave beyond the returned length.

**Example 2**:

> Given nums = **[0,1,2,2,3,0,4,2]**, val = **2**,
> 
> Your function should return length = **5**, with the first five elements of nums containing **0**, **1**, **3**, **0**, and **4**.
> 
> Note that the order of those five elements can be arbitrary.
> 
> It doesn't matter what values are set beyond the returned length.

**Clarification**:

Confused why the returned value is an integer but your answer is an array?

Note that the input array is passed in by **reference**, which means modification to the input array will be known to the caller as well.

Internally you can think of this:

<pre><code>
// <b>nums</b> is passed in by reference. (i.e., without making a copy)
int len = removeDuplicates(nums);
<br>
// any modification to <b>nums</b> in your function would be known by the caller.
// using the length returned by your function, it prints the first <b>len</b> elements.
for (int i = 0; i < len; i++) {
    print(nums[i]);
}
</code></pre>

---

# Solution

## 1. Naive Approach

Fill the right elements in the deleting places. Use a `count` to count the number that the target appears and `i` for iterating the numbers, which `i-count` represents the index of element in result array.

**Python**
```python
class Solution:
    def removeElement(self, nums: List[int], val: int) -> int:
        i = 0
        count = 0
        for i in range(len(nums)):
            if nums[i] == val:
                count += 1
            else:
                nums[i-count] = nums[i]
                i += 1
        return len(nums)-count
```

**Time Complexity** : $O(n)$

**Space Complexity** :$O(1)$

## 2. Python Del

Use `del` in python to achieve.

**Python**
```python
class Solution:
    def removeElement(self, nums: List[int], val: int) -> int:
        i = 0
        while i < len(nums):
            if nums[i] == val:
                del nums[i]
            else:
                i += 1
        return i
```

**Time Complexity** : $O(n)$

**Space Complexity** :$O(1)$