# 342. Power of Four

https://leetcode.com/problems/power-of-four/

---

# Description

Given an integer (signed 32 bits), write a function to check whether it is a power of 4.

**Example 1**:

<pre><code>
<b>Input</b>: 16
<b>Output</b>: true
</code></pre>

**Example 2**:

<pre><code>
<b>Input</b>: 5
<b>Output</b>: false
</code></pre>

**Follow up**:
Could you solve it without loops/recursion?

---

# Solution

## 1. Iteratly Divide by 4

If a number is the power of four, then it is the result of multiply of multiple 3s.

**Python**
```python
class Solution:
    def isPowerOfFour(self, num: int) -> bool:
        # divide by 4
        while num > 1:
            num /= 4
        return num == 1
```

**Time Complexity** : $O(\log_{4}{n})$

**Space Complexity** :$O(1)$

## 2. Base Conversion

If a number is the power of four, then its representation with base 3 is '1' followed by '0's. Use n&(n-1) to check.

**Java**
```java
class Solution {
    public boolean isPowerOfFour(int num) {
        return Integer.toString(num, 4).matches("^10*$");
    }
}
```

**Time Complexity** : $O(\log_{4}{n})$

**Space Complexity** :$O(1)$

## 3. Mathematics

We can use mathematics as follows

$n = 4^i \\ i = \log_4(n) \\ i = \frac{\log_b(n)}{\log_b(4)}$

$n$ is a power of four if and only if $i$ is an integer. In Java, we check if a number is an integer by taking the decimal part (using `% 1`) and checking if it is `0`. 

**Java**
```java
public class Solution {
    public boolean isPowerOfThree(int n) {
        return (Math.log10(num) / Math.log10(4)) % 1 == 0;
    }
}
```

However, this solution is problematic because we start using double `s`, which means we are subject to precision errors. This means, we should never use `==` when comparing doubles. That is because the result of `Math.log10(n) / Math.log10(4)` could be `5.0000001` or `4.9999999`. This effect can be observed by using the function `Math.log()` instead of `Math.log10()`.

**Time Complexity** : Complexity of `Math.log`, which is dependent on the language we are using and the compiler.

**Space Complexity** :$O(1)$

## 4. Bit Features

If a number is power of four, then its binary representation is '1' followed by even '0's, hence we can check by n&(n-1) and len(bin(num))%2.

**Python**
```python
class Solution:
    def isPowerOfFour(self, num: int) -> bool:
        return num > 0 and not num&(num-1) and len(bin(num))%2
```

**Time Complexity** : $O(1)$

**Space Complexity** :$O(1)$