# 435. Non-overlapping Intervals

https://leetcode.com/problems/non-overlapping-intervals/

---

# Description

Given a collection of intervals, find the minimum number of intervals you need to remove to make the rest of the intervals non-overlapping.

**Example 1**:

<pre><code>
<b>Input</b>: [[1,2],[2,3],[3,4],[1,3]]
<b>Output</b>: 1
<b>Explanation</b>: [1,3] can be removed and the rest of intervals are non-overlapping.
</code></pre>

**Example 2**:

<pre><code>
<b>Input</b>: [[1,2],[1,2],[1,2]]
<b>Output</b>: 2
<b>Explanation</b>: You need to remove two [1,2] to make the rest of intervals non-overlapping.
</code></pre>

**Example 3**:

<pre><code>
<b>Input</b>: [[1,2],[2,3]]
<b>Output</b>: 0
<b>Explanation</b>: You don't need to remove any of the intervals since they're already non-overlapping.
</code></pre>

**Note**:

- You may assume the interval's end point is always bigger than its start point.
- Intervals like [1,2] and [2,3] have borders "touching" but they don't overlap each other.

---

# Solution

## 1. Greedy

We can use greedy policy to solve this problem. This problem can be consider as a classical problem in dynamic programming -- Task Scheduling. 

After removing over-lapping intervals, the remained intervals can be scheduled on a line without overlapping. For all possible situations, the solution with most remained intervals is the solution of removing minimum number of elements.

To place as many as possible elements in a line, we always want to find the intervals that each occupied least part of the line. Policies are varied. Here we find the earliest terminated intervals as the selected interval over all intervals that not overlapped with previous selected intervals. Because the earliest termination means left most space for remainings. Possible valid intervals should start after the end of all selected intervals.

**Python**
```python
class Solution:
    def eraseOverlapIntervals(self, intervals: List[List[int]]) -> int:
        # greedy
        cutoff, count = -math.inf, 0
        for start, end in sorted(intervals, key=lambda x:x[1]): # sort by the end
            if start >= cutoff: # earlies terminated interval start after the cutoff time
                cutoff = end
                count += 1
        return len(intervals) - count
```

**Time Complexity** : $O(n)$

**Space Complexity** :$O(n)$