# 452. Minimum Number of Arrows to Burst Balloons

https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-number-of-arrows-to-burst-balloons/

---

# Description

There are a number of spherical balloons spread in two-dimensional space. For each balloon, provided input is the start and end coordinates of the horizontal diameter. Since it's horizontal, y-coordinates don't matter and hence the x-coordinates of start and end of the diameter suffice. Start is always smaller than end. There will be at most $10^4$ balloons.

An arrow can be shot up exactly vertically from different points along the x-axis. A balloon with $x_{\text{start}}$ and $x_{\text{end}}$ bursts by an arrow shot at $x$ if $x_{\text{start}} ≤ x ≤ x_{\text{end}}$. There is no limit to the number of arrows that can be shot. An arrow once shot keeps travelling up infinitely. The problem is to find the minimum number of arrows that must be shot to burst all balloons.

**Example 1**:

<pre><code>
<b>Input</b>: [[10,16], [2,8], [1,6], [7,12]]
<b>Output</b>: 2
<b>Explanation</b>: One way is to shoot one arrow for example at x = 6 (bursting the balloons [2,8] and [1,6]) and another arrow at x = 11 (bursting the other two balloons).
</code></pre>

---

# Solution

## 1. Greedy

We can use greedy policy to solve this problem. This problem can be consider as a classical problem in dynamic programming -- Task Scheduling. 

For balloons placing in a line without overlapping on x-coordinates, we need arrows with at least the same number of balloons. Hence, the minimum number of arrows that garantees to brust all balloons equals to the maximum number of ballopns that can be placed in a line without overlapping on x-coordinates.

Policies are various. Here we find the balloon with leftmost right end as the selected balloon over all balloons that not overlapped with previous selected balloons, as the leftmost right end means most space for remainings. Possible valid balloons should have left end after the right end of all selected balloons.

**Python**
```python
class Solution:
    def findMinArrowShots(self, points: List[List[int]]) -> int:
        cut, count = -math.inf, 0
        for start, end in sorted(points, key=lambda x:x[1]):
            if start > cut:
                cut = end
                count += 1
        return count
```

**Time Complexity** : $O(n)$

**Space Complexity** :$O(n)$